[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 1860s, place called Europe,
started using mercury based
fillings was brought to this
country, big controversy.
The dental society at the
time, the American physicians
and dentists,
physicians and surgeons,
refused to have anything to
do with mercury fillings,
saying it was toxic.
And any of their
members who were
found using mercury fillings
would be thrown out of society.
However, there was this
left wing radical group
of dentists that felt that
this was a good thing,
and they prevailed.
And their group was called the
American Dental Association.
And their views prevailed.
1920s, a German chemist was
poisoned by mercury fillings.
And again, a big controversy
erupted over the things.
And again, the ADA won.
And they're still used
today, and something
like 79 million
Americans are getting
mercury fillings put in their
mouths every day right now.
Legally we're not supposed
to say they're toxic.
So I never mention
that to patients.
But for a documentary, are they?
You betcha.
I've treated thousands
of people who
had mercury fillings removed.
And I cannot tell you the amount
of changes I've seen in human
beings over the years.
What I found interesting
was when we first
started taking them out,
people would say things like,
my memory's better, or
I'm sleeping better,
or it feels like I used to have
my finger in an electric socket
and now I don't feel
that way anymore.
And I used to think
those were odd comments.
And they stuck in
my mind because gee,
I don't see why it would affect
your memory or sleeping better.
But after hearing that a few
hundred times, it's like,
you know, there's probably
a connection with this.
And it's a very good
film in the sense it just
shows an extracted tooth,
which is put right in front
of a phosphorescent screen.
And what you see is the vapors
from the mercury coming off,
which is constant, which
goes on all the time
as long as you have a mercury
filling in your mouth.
Suffice it to say that if
you have it in your mouth,
you're being poisoned by it.
End of story.
A problem with it is it is so
diverse a toxin that it's not
one or two things.
If every time you had a mercury
filling your left pinky finger
turned black and fell off,
then people could say, oh yeah,
there's a definite correlation.
But it's insidious.
Chronic fatigue is
related to this.
So is periodontal
disease by the way.
In terms of chronic
fatigue, depression,
they're now showing possible
links with Alzheimer's,
psoriasis, MS. It's countless
the amount of things
that happen when you take
mercury fillings out.
Memory comes back, sleep gets
better, and so forth and so on.
The list just goes
on and on and on.
It's not so much
chronic fatigue.
Think of it as
chronic malnutrition,
because that's what's going on.
That's why people are tired.
You're not supposed to be
tired in the afternoon.
You're supposed to
be alive and vibrant.
It's like you don't need to get
older and have aches and pains
and slow down and
lose your energy.
Now, yes, some of that happens.
I don't party all night
like I would do when I'm 19.
But it doesn't have
to be a bad thing.
You know, God didn't
make you to fall apart.
He made you to enjoy your life.
And it's like you wouldn't
go to temple or church
and throw garbage on the floor.
Would you?
No.
And yet, why do we do
that with our bodies?
Isn't that our own
personal temple?
I mean, you live
here for God's sakes.
Why do you want
to foul your nest?
We were at a dental
meeting one time.
We have a school and
we had brochures out,
talking about these things.
And a dentist came by and
he looked at our brochure.
And all of a sudden he goes,
you drink water, don't you?
And we started backing
away saying, yeah.
He said, well water's made
from hydrogen and oxygen.
They're explosive.
Why don't we blow up?
Oh, well it's because
they're combined.
But look, mercury fillings,
mercury and mercury fillings,
it doesn't combine.
It's not inert, see?
Here's an article
from the Lancet,
that's the British
Medical Journal.
It's the most prestigious
journal in the world.
See, they say right here.
They did this studies and they
say mercury is still mercury.
It is not inert.
It is reactive throughout
the lifetime of the filling.
And the man read it,
looked at it, looked at us,
and took the book and just
threw it on the ground
and walked away.
And that's a common
reaction when
you talk to people about
their belief systems.
When I was in dental
school, we were
taught that gum disease
was not that common.
And it really happened more
and more in people over 55,
primarily women.
It was thought to be somehow
related to menopause.
Now, again it's 80%
of the population,
and we're talking about
people 18 and over.
And it's also in
30% of our children.
We're talking about our
children and our young.
And we're talking about
linkages to, again,
heart disease, stroke,
diabetes, obesity, cancers.
You name it and
it's there, and it's
because gum disease
can be looked
at as a poorly functioning
immune system responds
to all the stresses.
Now you're going to stick known
poisons in someone's mouth,
terms of mercury fillings?
Give me a break.
I mean, what are we
doing to our population?
This is not healing.
It's not even keeping
them where they are.
It's actually doing damage.
Now there's a place called
China for people not aware of it
who've been doing a
ton of assessments
for Disease Control for a
little over 5,000 years.
It doesn't work that
well in this country
because they use a
different method.
But suffice it to say that most
people who have a cold or a flu
or going on a
cleansing diet will
notice that their
tongue is turning
white, which is an indication
of toxins coming out.
There used to be a time
when physicians knowing
you were sick would
actually come to your house
and make house calls.
And one of the first
things they would do
is stick out your tongue
to look at the color.
Chinese medicine doesn't quite
work in a Western population,
which I found out when I first
started doing this around 1980.
Because people here don't
understand when you say
you have internal heat, and
your ying energy is too low.
They go, great.
Thank you very much, bye.
So I started doing my
own research on this
and started westernizing
my own stuff, which
is why I wrote the book
"Your Tongue Never Lies".
But suffice it to say,
if your tongue is yellow
or yellowish green it's usually
indicative of liver gallbladder
problem.
If it's gray or
grayish brown, it
can be stomach or
large intestine.
If the tip of the tongue is
red it's usually heart disease.
If the sides of the
tongue are reddish
it can be either intestinal
problems or thyroid problems.
If you've got scalloping
on the sides of your tongue
it's usually mineral
deficiencies.
And if you've got cracks on the
top it's vitamin deficiencies.
And if you have a
coating on the tongue,
the thicker the coating, the
more chronic the problem is.
So what do we do now?
We give people tongue scrapers.
Hey folks, you wake
up in the morning,
you got crap all
over your tongue.
Your tongue looks like
your neighbor's doormat.
You can take your
scraper and scrape it off
and think that's good?
Why are you getting this
stuff on your tongue
in the first place?
What's going on?
[MUSIC PLAYING]